Heart attacks occur when blood flow
to the heart muscle is blocked.
The most common cause is
fatty deposits called plaque
in the coronary arteries,
which supply blood and oxygen to the heart.
Plaque build-up begins as early as childhood,
when fat is deposited in the arteries.
As you get older,
other substances such as protein,
cholesterol,
white blood cells and calcium
are also deposited
contributing to the build-up.
This build up of plaque is called
Coronary Artery Disease.
If the heart muscle does not get enough
blood and oxygen to meet its needs,
a person may experience angina,
a type of chest pain.
If the plaque build-up breaks open,
the body tries to fix it
by forming a clot.
This clot can block the coronary artery
and prevent the flow of blood and oxygen
to the point that the heart muscle dies,
causing a heart attack.